[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello, I'm Richard Dolan,
and this is False Flags.
The First World War
broke the old world
and created something
entirely new,
it brutalized and militarized
the world as well.
And it also created the
first truly modern system
of propaganda.
Newspapers had been
nationalistic and warlike
before this, but
now, increasingly,
the methods of
manipulation were becoming
more and more sophisticated.
Especially with the
innovations of one man,
a nephew of Sigmund Freud
named Edward Bernays, who
revolutionized advertising
and almost single-handedly,
created the new industry
of public relations.
But more than this,
in several nations,
control over the
newspapers and radio
was becoming a very important
priority, especially
in those nations that had
authoritarian governments,
like the new Soviet Union, the
fascist government in Italy,
and later, Germany, as well
as in the empire of Japan.
In other words,
these governments
were diving headfirst into
a new and strange world
where their governments
had control over mass media
and, therefore, could dominate
the public mind as never
before.
And on top of this, many
of those same nations--
Germany, Japan, and
the Soviet Union--
were very unhappy with
the state of the world
after World War I and
their place in it.
The world opinion did not
allow for wars of aggression
like it might have
done in the past.
War was widely condemned now
as it had never been before.
So if a nation wanted
to create change
on the international stage,
they would need a good pretext.
All the pieces were in place
for some major false flags,
especially once the global
economy collapsed after 1929.
In our last episode, we saw
how this transpired in Germany
when the Nazi party
took power and conducted
two epic false flags
that changed the world.
Now let's take a look at
Japan and the Soviet Union,
two other authoritarian
governments
that engaged in false
flags during the 1930s.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Nearer still to US territory
is Japan's greatest enemy.
Only 54 miles of Bering
Strait separate Alaska
from militarized Soviet Russia.
>> Because these two nations
also consciously created false
narratives to justify actions
that could never have otherwise
been justified.
Then before we go,
we'll also take a look
at an event in
American history that
has been at the center of
debate for quite some time now,
the bombing of Pearl
Harbor in 1941.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Was that also a false flag?
Well, Japan had a long history
of government censorship
and thought control.
In the centuries before it
had any contact with the West,
Japan, in many ways, was a
police state with total control
over the spread of information.
A tendency which the state
entrenched even further
in the 19th century
once the nation
was in contact with
the rest of the world.
After the First World War
ended, thought crimes,
like socialism or promoting
Korean independence,
were severely punished.
There was even a special police
force created specifically
to deal with such offenses.
The media was
tightly controlled.
Censorship was universal.
And by the mid-1930s, an
information and propaganda
committee was formalized.
But even before
this, the government
had detailed guidelines
to publishers
that had to be followed.
Naturally, criticism of
the government or military
was forbidden.
And, indeed, anything deemed
unfavorable was censored.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The government of Japan,
like the Nazis over in Germany,
could tell its citizens
whatever it wanted.
Japan's military
was also feeling
pretty good about itself.
The country had
significantly modernized,
much more than China which was
their neighboring giant next
door.
In fact, China was
still a long way
from getting its act
together in any way that
could compete with the rest
of the world economically
and militarily.
The Japanese leadership
saw a ripe opportunity.
Japan already had economic
interests in China,
but now they wanted
control outright.
>> Japan's answer to
the economic blizzard
of the depression was war.
First, an invasion of
Manchuria and then, China.
Japan had few natural resources
and a rapidly increasing
population.
She determined to take the
raw materials and living
space that she wanted by force.
>> Their first false flag took
place on September 18th, 1931.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> This was in southern
Manchuria near the town
of Mukden and it is known as the
Mukden Incident or sometimes,
the Manchurian Incident.
A group of Japanese
officers in Manchuria
wanted to provide a
pretext that would
justify Japanese
military invasion
and replace the Chinese
government in the region
with either a Japanese
government or a puppet
government.
They chose to sabotage
a railway section
in an area near Luitiao Lake.
In fact, this was an area of
no great military importance
to the Japanese, or the
Chinese, but the railroad
was owned by Japan, and
was only 800 meters away
from a Chinese garrison.
The plan was to create
a large explosion which
would then attract
Chinese troops
and then, to blame it on them.
By standards of today,
this is unbelievably crude.
It could never succeed,
but 1931 was different.
These soldiers were in a fairly
remote part of the world.
Technology was
totally different.
And besides, China was too weak
to do much about it anyway.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Japan really just needed
a pretext so they detonated
an explosion on the railroad on
the evening of September 18th,
just as planned, except that
the explosion itself turned out
to be very minor.
It was so weak that only a
tiny part of one of the rails
received any damage at all.
About four and a half feet
of one rail and that was it.
In fact, just 10 minutes after
the explosion, 10 minutes,
a train passed by on this track
right over the damaged part
without a hitch.
Oh, well.
But it didn't really matter.
Japan's military really had
to go ahead with it anyway
so they accused the Chinese
the act and this provided
a pretext for the Japanese
annexation of Manchuria,
a huge amount of territory.
You would think that
something so minor
would be an utter
failure as a false flag,
but you would be wrong.
The Japanese press was
completely on board.
It referred to this humble
little stretch of railroad
as a critically
important bridge.
A few days later, the
Japanese government
made an official press release.
It's a bit long, but
it's fascinating,
and it'll give you a flavor of
the flat out duplicity going on
here.
It begins--
[MUSIC PLAYING]
"For some years past,
unpleasant incidents
have taken place in the regions
of Manchuria and Mongolia
in which Japan is interested
in a special degree.
Amidst the atmosphere
of anxiety,
a detachment of Chinese
troops destroyed the tracks
of the South Manchuria Railway
in the vicinity of Mukden
and attacked our railway
guards at midnight
on 18th of September."
It goes on-- "a clash between
Japanese and Chinese troops
then took place.
Hundreds and thousands
of Japanese residents
were placed in jeopardy.
In order to forestall
an imminent disaster,
the Japanese army
had to act swiftly.
The endeavors of
the Japanese Army
to guard the South Manchurian
Railway against wanton attacks
should be viewed
in no other light.
It may be superfluous to repeat
that the Japanese government
harbors no territorial
designs on Manchuria."
So note the threadbare
excuse and the emphasis
on oh, no, we don't
want anyone's territory,
while, of course, they
were stealing it all.
You see, even back in the
1930s with false flags,
it wasn't so much the
actual event that mattered,
but how it was portrayed
in the major media.
>> Clashes between Japanese and
Chinese in Manchuria prompted
the Nepalese militarists
to take action.
Without waiting for any
formal declaration of war,
Japanese troops attacked.
>> The rest of the
world severely condemned
Japan's invasion, but Japan
knew that no one was ever going
to do anything about it.
Europe and America
were still reeling
from the bloodbath of
the First World War,
they did not want to
go through war again.
And plus, there was
a global depression
that made things worse.
The mood of that era was
focused on making war illegal
and, basically, talking it out
through the League of Nations.
Well, this was useless
against a government committed
to actual conquest.
On September 18th,
1931, Japanese troops
seized Mukden, Manchuria's
most important city.
>> They say nothing
succeeds like success.
Japan did it once,
why not do it again?
They did it, in 1937, once
again, against hapless China.
This time, the Japanese
wanted to invade China itself.
We now come to the infamous
Marco Polo Bridge Incident.
>> First thing the Japs did was
to prepare their usually fake
alibi.
This time it wasn't a
damaged railway track
as it had been in
Manchuria 1931.
A Jap soldier had disappeared.
Obviously, he'd been kidnapped
by the insolent Chinese.
Once more, Japan's
honor had been insulted.
Once more, the insult
must be avenged.
>> This isn't as clear
and obvious a false flag
as the Manchurian Incident,
but it is suspicious,
and it was used by Japanese
War Hawks as the pretext
for invading China.
On the night of July 7th,
1937, the Japanese and Chinese
were very close to each
other near the northern city
of Beijing.
They were not at war,
but they were definitely
not on friendly terms.
The Japanese military unit
was engaging in a drill
at that time and
decided, they did not
need to inform the
Chinese of that fact.
So not surprisingly, some
shots were fired by both sides.
This does not appear to
have been a huge encounter
and it certainly did not need to
become anything more than that,
but then, a Japanese
soldier went missing,
or so we are told.
The Japanese decided to turn
this into an alleged kidnapping
by the Chinese.
The Japanese decided to
make this into a big deal.
They demanded to search the
Chinese base for their missing
soldier.
The Chinese said, no, thanks.
We'll search for him ourselves
and you can bring one
of your officers along to help.
Yes, but if the
Japanese had agreed
to that logical
suggestion, they would have
had no excuse to pick a fight.
So instead, they tried
forcing their way in
and were driven back.
Now things escalated and this
became a full on skirmish.
>> On the night
of July 7th, 1937,
at the Marco Polo
Bridge near Peking,
the Jap war machine struck.
>> Japan clearly wanted a reason
to go to war, and they went.
Perhaps it was a false flag,
a set up by the Japanese.
If not, then it was one of
the most threadbare excuses
for war in the last century.
It opened the way for
massive atrocities
against the Chinese people
and years of conflict
that went well past
the Second World War.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Now, again, these events
were able to happen in some part
because there was simply no
real freedom of the press.
No real freedom of
inquiry and expression.
Maybe in the case of
Japan, it wouldn't
have made much difference
because of all the false flags
of the 20th century.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> These two by Japan were
among the most obvious.
Really, the Japanese military
didn't care all that much.
But certainly, they were all
about controlling the media
within their country
and, therefore,
controlling the
narrative because once
you do that, you can
do almost anything.
Japan, like Nazi
Germany, was a pioneer
in the modern art
of the false flag.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> And as plundering
hoards gained new victories
and occupied new territory,
Japan's men of the sword see
already at hand,
the hour of destiny.
The hour when Japan's new order
can be imposed upon the world.
>> But there was another
nation in the 1930s that helped
to develop this modern plague.
If you think the Kennedy
assassination had
major repercussions
in American history,
well, the assassination of
Stalin's leading rival in 1934,
had at least equal impact on
the history of the Soviet Union.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In the summer of 1932,
Soviet dictator, Joseph Stalin,
started to realize that there
was a great deal of opposition
to his policies,
which had, after all,
not only been heavy handed, it
not only dispossessed millions
of people from their
farms and property,
but had also alienated the
Revolutionary Party that
brought them all to
power, the old Bolsheviks.
Stalin had eliminated
and banished many of them
in various power struggles.
Now he was finding that some
party members were publicly
criticizing him and calling
for the readmission of some
of them, like Leon
Trotsky, back to the party.
At a top level meeting,
Stalin demanded
that his critics should
be arrested and executed.
But there was one man brave
enough to argue against him.
And that was Sergey Kirov.
At the vote, the
majority supported Kirov.
Kirov was a unique man.
He was an original revolutionary
from way back in 1917.
And he was still
very loyal to Stalin.
Even so, he had an
independent mind,
and he was incredibly
popular, much
more liked by the
Communist Party leadership
than Stalin was,
that's for sure.
In 1934, at another
top government meeting,
Kirov suggested a national
policy of reconciliation.
He said that people
who had been imprisoned
for opposing the collective
farms and the industrialization
policies should be released.
And, once again, Stalin
found himself out voted.
Stalin planned
Kirov's assassination.
Since Kirov was in Leningrad,
which is now St. Petersburg,
he wanted to have it
done through the head
of the intelligence
agencies in that city.
The problem was, that man was
a close friend of Kirov's.
When Stalin tried to
have one of his lackeys
to replace Kirov's man,
Kirov was so annoyed,
to say the least, and
said absolutely no way.
Stalin then had to go
through his security
chief, the monstrous Genrikh
Yagoda, to find an assassin.
That man was found, a man
named Leonid Nikolaev.
Nikolaev's first attempt
to enter Kirov's building
totally failed, he only
ended up getting arrested.
But he had friends on the
inside and was released.
Then on December 1st, 1934,
he finally got in and killed
his target, Kirov was dead.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Right after this,
immediately after,
Nikolaev and all the other
key witnesses were eliminated.
Stalin was able to turn Kirov
practically into a Saint.
The media, completely and
totally compliant to Stalin,
whipped up public
frenzy into a witch hunt
for the terrorists who
plotted this heinous crime.
Before long,
Stalin's other rivals
were charged with the murder.
They were interrogated.
They were tortured.
And then brought before a
secret military tribunal.
With no proof against
them, they accepted
what was called quote,
the political and moral
responsibility, end quote,
for Kirov's murder, whatever
that means.
This was the beginning
of the great purges,
a brutal and extra
repressive period
of the Stalinist nightmare.
It lasted for years, right up
to the outbreak of the Second
World War.
You might not think of a
political assassination
as a false flag and most of
them aren't, but think about it.
Stalin eliminates his most
dangerous political rival
and blames it on his
other political rivals,
using this as a pretext for
turning the country inside out.
It qualifies.
Now Stalin, like Hitler,
like the Japanese,
was also not averse to doing
an international false flag
as a way to justify an
invasion of another country.
After the German invasion
of Poland of 1939,
involving several false
flags as we have seen,
the Soviet Union also
created a false flag
to invade the nation of Finland.
Those two countries
had signed treaties
promising that neither country
would invade the other.
So that meant if the Soviets
were going to invade Finland,
they needed to invent
a very good excuse.
It's interesting
that in the year
or so before they
did their false flag,
they held several war games
based exactly on the incident
that they now enacted.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> On November 26, 1939,
at the small border village
of Mainila, seven
artillery shots were fired.
Finnish observation
posts saw this.
There were witnesses who
saw the shells detonate just
inside Soviet territory.
The Soviets claimed that several
of their soldiers were killed.
They were outraged.
Not surprisingly, the Finns
denied any responsibility.
By saying what they did,
they were essentially
accusing the Soviets of
perpetrating the false flag,
although they didn't
state this explicitly,
at least, not at first.
Finland wanted to have a neutral
investigation of all of this,
but predictably, the
Soviet Union refused.
The Finns did their
own investigation,
concluding that they had
nothing to do with this.
In fact, not only did they
identify Soviet artillery
as the source of the shelling,
but their own artillery
was out of range,
explicitly in order
to prevent just such a scenario.
But it didn't matter.
A few days later,
the Soviets invaded
Finland starting what was
called the Winter War,
a bloody and brutal affair
that took many lives,
all based on a lie.
There's been a great
deal of archival research
on this incident.
It has proven beyond any doubt
to have been a false flag.
This includes
declassified materials
in the Russian and
Soviet archives,
Finnish war diaries, and a great
deal of witness testimony taken
at the time.
Even Soviet leader,
Nikita Khrushchev,
years later admitted that
the whole thing was staged.
In the 1990s, Russian president
Boris Yeltsin also agreed.
The whole point had been to
paint Finland as an aggressor
and launch an offensive.
And by the way, there were no
Soviet troop losses either,
that was all made up.
These false flags happened at
a certain period in our world
when a number of puzzle pieces
making up the modern world
came together.
One simple thing was that
because wars of aggression
were now considered
wrong and immoral,
nations that had
aggressive designs
had to find better and better
excuses for their invasions.
This really hadn't been the
case in earlier centuries.
Secondly, the nations behind
these early false flags--
Germany, Japan, and
the Soviet Union--
were all forms of dictatorship
with dominant control
over their media, which,
back in those days,
was newspapers and radio.
When the government
controls the media,
they control the message
that's reaching the people.
That is very, very important.
And was also very
much a new development
in the history of the world.
Sure, governments
had always had lots
of power over people, going
back to ancient times,
but what they didn't have a
system of mass media by which
to spread their information,
or disinformation,
as the case was here.
And also, each of
these nations had
developed very good
militaries for their time
with very well-developed
intelligence communities.
And we can see, the military
and intelligence community
influence on most of
these false flags.
Maybe more to the point,
each of these nations
was a regional power, much more
powerful than their neighbors.
It's hard to justify an
international false flag
if you are likely to get beaten
by the nation on your border.
Finally, each of
these nations was
very unhappy with their place
in the world at the time.
Germany and Japan, especially,
but also, the Soviet Union,
all were looking for
opportunities to grow.
None were happy with the
international status quo.
Well that's an
unhappy combination
of events that allowed for
these false flags to take place.
Now before wrapping up,
there is one other event
we really need to take
a look at and this
is the attack on Pearl
Harbor on December 7, 1941.
It was this attack on
a major American Naval
base by the Japanese that
launched America's involvement
in the Second World War.
>> No matter what our enemies,
in their desperation may
attempt to do to us, we will
say as the people of London have
said, we can take it.
And what's more, what's
more, we can give it back.
And we will give it back
with compound interests.
>> For years, this attack was
attributed to a failure of US
intelligence.
And even to this day, that
is the dominant mainstream
interpretation.
It's interesting to note
that there were people
at the time who had suspicions
that somehow, Pearl Harbor was
a setup.
There was no internet
back then and hardly
anything of what we would
call an alternative media
so the suspicions
never went anywhere.
But since then, a number
of revisionist historians
have challenged the
dominant narrative
of what happened that day.
One such study, by historian
Robert B. Stinnett,
is a meticulously
detailed analysis
of the attack on Pearl Harbor.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It shows with crystal clarity
that President Roosevelt knew
the Japanese attack was
coming and, in fact,
knew of their plans more
than a year in advance.
The book is titled, "Day
of Deceit, The Truth About
FDR and Pearl Harbor."
>> Stinnett spent 17 years
investigating this event,
filing critically important
freedom of information requests
and learning of the existence
of a massive top secret file
called the Pacific War
Communications Intelligence
Files of the United States Navy.
It took him many years to
access this file which contained
over one million records.
He finally hit pay
dirt in the 1990s
discovering that even
though many files had still
been held back and
even altered to conceal
important information,
enough was
released to allow him to put
the story, the true story,
together.
He made it clear that the
American Military High
Command knew more
than a week in advance
that the Pacific fleet at Pearl
Harbor would be the target.
This was because American
Naval Intelligence
had cracked the Japanese
Naval codes back
in 1940, more than a year
before the attack that killed
over 2,000 American servicemen.
Stinnett showed that the
establishment explanation
of Pearl Harbor, that
Americans hadn't cracked
the Japanese encryption.
That the Japanese
engaged in radio silence
to avoid detection.
That Americans didn't know
where the Japanese would attack,
and so on.
He showed all of
that to be false.
For instance, he showed
the Japanese carrier fleet
did engage in daily radio
communication with itself,
as well as other
Japanese command centers.
He knew this by reading American
Naval Intelligence radio
intercepts of the
Japanese transmissions.
The Americans had
the info right there,
intercepting well over
90% of all Japanese radio
transmissions.
All sent on to the headquarters
for Naval Communications
Intelligence in Washington.
Of course, all these Japanese
communications were in code,
but American codebreakers had
broken all the Japanese Naval
codes by October of 1940.
American cryptologists could
read almost all Japanese radio
traffic within hours
of receiving them.
Now in a normal world,
you would think, great,
America has the ability
to defend itself.
But the critical information
from these intercepted Japanese
communications was withheld
from the key commanders
of the forces in Hawaii and
the Pacific fleet, Lieutenant
General Walter Short and
Admiral Husband E Kimmel.
It strongly appears
that these two men
were betrayed by their
friends and colleagues
in the Naval High
Command who did
know of the impending attack.
Not only could the
Americans intercept and read
the Japanese radio
transmissions,
most of the radio
intercept stations
had technology called radio
direction finders which
allowed them to
pinpoint the location
of specific Japanese warships.
All of this, and more, was
uncovered by historian Robert
Stinnett in his excellent book.
Now the thing about
Pearl Harbor is not
that it was a classic false
flag in the sense I've
been discussing
earlier, this wasn't
an American covert operation.
The Japanese clearly
conducted the attack.
But the US political
and military leadership
wanted to get involved in the
World War that was going on
at the time, but American
public opinion was dead set
against getting involved.
A pretext, or cause,
was absolutely
necessary to change that
public opinion, something
dreadful and shocking.
>> 7:55 AM December 7th, that
minute will go down in history
as the beginning of
the end of the Japs.
I know it because they
started something we're
going to finish, you and me.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Although the American
government has never made any
such admission, the historical
evidence points strongly
to the conclusion that President
Roosevelt and his chief
advisers knew this attack was
going to happen and allowed it
to happen.
America wasn't a dictatorship
with total control
over the press like Germany,
Japan, or the Soviet Union,
but as spectacular
as Pearl Harbor was
in terms of the carnage
and destruction,
it was a much more
subtle false flag
than any other of that era.
Because Pearl Harbor
was allowed to happen
and clearly, the people involved
were extremely close lipped
about it for the
rest of their lives.
It may be that some people
would look at the situation
today and condone the
president's policy.
After all, they could argue
that getting involved in the war
was the right thing
to do and something
was necessary to
convince the public.
Maybe that's so, but in a system
of government based on rule
by the people, such
underhanded tactics only
serve to erode the
foundations of that system.
After all, once you learn how
to manipulate public opinion so
easily, it becomes very
tempting to keep on doing it.
And also, we have to wonder just
how the American public might
have responded had it learned
of Stinnett's research
at the time.
How angry do you think
people would have been?
The point of discussing these
perfidious acts of the past
is twofold.
First, I want to emphasize
to you that false flags, even
though they may not
be something that
goes all the way through ancient
times with any regularity,
are something that goes back
through the past century.
They are part and parcel
of the world we live in.
They may not happen
everyday, but there
are reasons they have
happened in the past
and those reasons remain
with us to this day.
The other reason to
talk about these things
is not to depress us by
discussing evil things
that governments
do, on the contrary.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Truth-telling is the
most empowering act of all.
It's only by looking
at the world around us
with clear vision that we have
a chance to identify problems
and to deal with them.
It's unfortunate that false
flags are part of our world,
but we don't help ourselves or
anyone else by pretending they
aren't.
We need to see them clearly
and be willing to call them out
when they happen
because when we do,
we empower ourselves
and step-by-step,
really do make our
world a better place.
Join me next time on False
Flags when we explore,
when after the end of
the Second World War,
false flags
increasingly returned
against the government's
own citizens.
Remember, reaching the
truth means stripping away
the illusions around us.
Don't buy into the
fear, just wake up.
I'm Richard Dolen.